# BIOMD0000000211: Model_1

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000211.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000211.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
** Experimental and in silico analyses of glycolytic flux control in bloodstream form Trypanosoma brucei. **   
Albert MA, Haanstra JR, Hannaert V, Van Roy J, Opperdoes FR, Bakker BM,
Michels PA. _J Biol Chem_2005 Aug 5;280(31):28306-15.
[15955817](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15955817),  
**Abstract:**   
A mathematical model of glycolysis in bloodstream form Trypanosoma brucei was
developed previously on the basis of all available enzyme kinetic data
(Bakker, B. M., Michels, P. A. M., Opperdoes, F. R., and Westerhoff, H. V.
(1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 3207-3215). The model predicted correctly the
fluxes and cellular metabolite concentrations as measured in non-growing
trypanosomes and the major contribution to the flux control exerted by the
plasma membrane glucose transporter. Surprisingly, a large overcapacity was
predicted for hexokinase (HXK), phosphofructokinase (PFK), and pyruvate kinase
(PYK). Here, we present our further analysis of the control of glycolytic flux
in bloodstream form T. brucei. First, the model was optimized and extended
with recent information about the kinetics of enzymes and their activities as
measured in lysates of in vitro cultured growing trypanosomes. Second, the
concentrations of five glycolytic enzymes (HXK, PFK, phosphoglycerate mutase,
enolase, and PYK) in trypanosomes were changed by RNA interference. The
effects of the knockdown of these enzymes on the growth, activities, and
levels of various enzymes and glycolytic flux were studied and compared with
model predictions. Data thus obtained support the conclusion from the in
silico analysis that HXK, PFK, and PYK are in excess, albeit less than
predicted. Interestingly, depletion of PFK and enolase had an effect on the
activity (but not, or to a lesser extent, expression) of some other glycolytic
enzymes. Enzymes located both in the glycosomes (the peroxisome-like
organelles harboring the first seven enzymes of the glycolytic pathway of
trypanosomes) and in the cytosol were affected. These data suggest the
existence of novel regulatory mechanisms operating in trypanosome glycolysis.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2012 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


